glutamine is an is a considered a
non-essential amino acid mainly because
the body can synthesize it from sugar
from glucose you can synthesize
glutamine from from um U from glucose it
is the most abundant amino acid in our
bloodstream so if you were to go and
have an amino acid analysis of your
blood glutamine would be the number one
amino acid in in the blood glutamine is
essential for the Ura cycle glutamine is
an essential metabolite for our immune
system glutamine is an essential
metabolite for the health and function
of our gut so you need this amino acid
even though they call it a non-essential
amino acid is absolutely essential for
certain physiological
systems um but there is no food that you
can eat that would deprive you of
glutamine okay period you're glutamine
if you don't your body's going to make
it from sugar anyway but if you uh we we
found is water only fasting with uh
exercise will lower blood glutamine
levels you can lower your blood
glutamine levels down uh to a
significant degree is it low enough to
completely deprive the tumor cell which
is an essential necess it's essential
for that that uh cell you you you got to
be careful with it and this is what
we're that's why we pulsing the pulsing
concept means that you just hit it
briefly for certain periods of time to
just uh kill off the tumor cells
gradually um uh deprive them so if
they're already choked on the glucose
side then you can pulse them on the
glutamine side and gradually degrade
them slower than you would normally
while maintaining the health and
vitality of your body now it is true
that some people who do long-term water
only fasting like gu tanam and I I'm
getting reports back from several folks
who told me that whatever different
kinds of cancers they have had uh
completely disappear after long-term
repeated water only fasting uh and
exercise and this kind of thing and and
that really uh powers powers the body
the body will turn on the tumor cells
and use them as food uh when you don't
eat a lot food the body goes through an
incredible uh surveillance internal
surveillance system where every cell in
the body now has to carry its own weight
and be be uh productive for the whole
the good of the whole the whole the
whole society of cells all organ systems
in the body must be operational at the
highest level of efficiency tumor cells
are not they're massively inefficient uh
they're they're consumers of energy in a
very unefficient way so when the
surveillance system comes when you put
your body under these restricted
conditions internally they'll go after
those tumor cells and Destroy them and
eat them and redistribute the fuel in
the in the membranes of the tumor cells
for the rest of the body so but you have
to get into that zone before that
happens and um what we find though is
when some folks are given standards of
care whether it's chemo or radiation
blood sugar and goes up through the roof
so the body uh is making you're you're
putting when you put your body in stress
um emotional or physical stress
corticosteroids go up it's a it's a um
fright flight kind of a thing and that's
not good for cancer um so what you what
we what part of the press pulse
therapeutic strategy is Stress
Management as well not only are we
depriving the the the fuels by uh diet
and potentially small drugs that we use
to Target glut
um but we also reduce emotional stress
as part of the uh overall U ability for
the body to heal itself so um so all of
that plays a role and you know right now
we're the most powerful drug uh for
glutamine targeting is 6di oxy
norleucine da it's been used in the
research Community for years um it was
used on cancer patients years ago uh
they said it was too toxic because they
gave too high of a dosages under wrong
conditions uh without targeting glucose
and knowing not knowing how to use the
tool they had they had a powerful tool
and they didn't know how to use it so
they took it off the market um and they
gave it to little kids and other cancer
patients and things and some people
responded really well but now we know
how to use that tool and that drug
should be absolutely a a a part of the
cancer therapy cocktail of of treatments
but it's not
um and if you try to get it on on
compassionate use the bureaucracy is
just uh very very difficult you got to
get State paperwork you got to get
Federal paperwork it's like oh people
can say oh we're gonna have you know
compassionate use but it's it's not easy
to go through the bureaucracy to get
it's crazy because there's a drug that
would have when used in the right way uh
could have massive therapeutic benefits
um the problem is that when off patent
nobody can make a buck on it and um and
and so you're left with that so we have
to sacrifice all these poor cancer
patients because there's a drug
available that they can't get um and
it's just it's tragic on all on all
levels